---
title: "Towards a Quantum-Inspired Binary Classifier"
collection: publications
excerpt: 'This paper proposed novel Quantum Inspired Classifier.'
date: 2019-03-20
venue: 'IEEE Access'
paperurl: 'https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8671690'
citation: 'Tiwari, P., & Melucci, M. (2019). Towards a quantum-inspired binary classifier. IEEE Access, 7, 42354-42372.'
---
Machine Learning classification models learn the relation between input as features and output as a class in order to predict the class for the new given input. Several research works have demonstrated the effectiveness of machine learning algorithms but the state-of-the-art algorithms are based on the classical theories of probability and logic. Quantum Mechanics (QM) has already shown its effectiveness in many fields and researchers have proposed several interesting results which cannot be obtained through classical theory. In recent years, researchers have been trying to investigate whether the QM can help to improve the classical machine learning algorithms. It is believed that the theory of QM may also inspire an effective algorithm if it is implemented properly. From this inspiration, we propose the quantum-inspired binary classifier, which is based on quantum detection theory. We used text corpora and image corpora to explore the effect of our proposed model. Our proposed model outperforms the state-of-the-art models in terms of precision, recall, and F-measure for several topics (categories) in the 20 newsgroup text corpora. Our proposed model outperformed all the baselines in terms of recall when the MNIST handwritten image dataset was used; F-measure is also higher for most of the categories and precision is also higher for some categories. Our proposed model suggests that binary classification effectiveness can be achieved by using quantum detection theory. In particular, we found that our Quantum-Inspired Binary Classifier can increase the precision, recall, and F-measure of classification where the state-of-the-art methods cannot.



[Download paper here](https://github.com/prayagtiwari/prayagtiwari.github.io/tree/master/files/QIBC.pdf)


Recommended citation: Tiwari, P., & Melucci, M. (2019). "Towards a quantum-inspired binary classifier." IEEE Access, 7, 42354-42372.
